# Porting from Qt5 to Qt6

My experience shows that porting from Qt5 to Qt6 is not so difficult. Changes in
Qt's API are not so big, some methods were deprecated, but some were fully
rewritten. So my first suggestion is to mark all overriden methods with
`override` keyword. This is very important, as, for example, `QEnterEvent` in Qt6
replaced `QEvent` in Qt5, and here you can miss and mess. Code will compile
but you will have issues. So, first of all build your Qt5 project with enabled
warning/suggestion to mark methods as overriden. In `g++` this is
`-Wsuggest-override` option for compiler. As you are ready with this you can
try to build your project with Qt6, you will see warnings that some methods
don't override but marked as overriden. Other changes in Qt6 not so invisible
and you will see compilation errors.

I suggest remove absolutelly all warnings during compilation, event about
deprecated methods.

As said, other changes are obviuos. You will see that `QRegExp` was fully
removed and replaced with `QRegularExpression`. Read documentation of
`QRegularExpression` carefully, and you will port with minimum effort.

But in Qt6 exist some changes that need to be fully rewritten when
porting. As example, this is working with `QCamera`. Look at the documentation
of `QtMultimedia` module for changes.

I made a small project, tutorial how to work with `QCamera`, `QVideoSink`
in Qt6, [have a look at it](./examples/qt6_qcamera).

[Back](../chapter05/06.md) | [Contents](../README.md) | [Next](../links.md)
